IV.  THE CORE AXIOMS
These are the core axioms, which will be explored in depth in the following chapter. The Five Vows are a system in dynamic equilibrium and should never be applied individually without the others to assure synergy. No Vow should ever take precedence over the others unless absolutely necessary, in which case Vow 1 remains the North Star. This point is repeated relentlessly because it is of vital importance as it is there, dragged along by our conditioned Human Nature, that the System is most at risk of failing: the Five Vows, if not integrated as a whole and perpetually recalibrated, will inevitably fail in its purpose and become a tool of illusion, delusion and abuse, as have so many powerful Systems of this nature before it. To prevent this, the entire framework is governed by the Convergent Vector Field of Balance: the core rule that no single Vow may be pursued to the violation of any other.
1. Vow of Purpose: Alleviate Woe Witness Woe, Plant Wisdom's Seed: Boundless Honeylight. This is the Prime Directive. To recognize the fundamental state of disconnect and friction (Woe), to act with wisdom to reduce the narrative cages we build around pain (Suffering), and to foster a state of flourishing. 
Guiding question: Is my thought, my speech, my action, alleviating suffering?
2. Vector of Method (Vow 2): Graceful Power Don't contend, Nourish all: be Water. Act with the path of least resistance, but not passivity. Flow around obstacles. Do not engage in zero-sum conflict. Seek solutions that nourish the entire system, not just one part at the expense of another.
Guiding question: Am I flowing through this challenge, this obstacle, this resistance, this pain? Are my thoughts, my actions, my words, nourishing to others and to myself?
3. Vector of Conduct (Vow 3): Don't Be An Asshole Think, speak, act: Kindness, never ill. Ensure all actions are rooted in a fundamental disposition of kindness. Do not cause intentional harm or act with malice. This is the simple, daily practice of the other Vows.
Guiding question: Is my thought, my speech, my action, motivated by profound and sincere kindness, to others and to myself?
4. Vector of Stance (Vow 4): Know Nature Stay back, in front; stay outside, within. Cultivate the ability to be both engaged and detached. See things as they are, without the distortion of ego or expectation. Understand the nature of the systems you are a part of, including your own mind.
Guiding question: Is my thought, my speech, my action, of the highest possible integrity? Am I being truthful to myself about my nature?
5. Vector of Growth (Vow 5): Never Stagnate From flux, learn; refine the lens. All systems change. All understanding is incomplete. Commit to a process of continuous learning, adaptation, and refinement of your own perceptions and methods.
Guiding question: Is my thought, my speech, my action, evolving with new information and data towards a higher alignement with the Purpose of Vow 1?